---
layout: post
title: "A Toast"
date: 2008-12-26
---

<p>2008 has officially come and gone. It seems like mere weeks ago I was laying in my bed, nearly asleep, counting down the seconds to the new year in hopeful excitement. I remember thinking to myself, “I wonder what all will happen in 2008?” I remember wishing myself good luck in the upcoming year. If I can remember correctly, I made the resolution that I wanted to lose a significant amount of weight before the end of the year. Well, that certainly didn’t happen, but there’s always 2009. </p>  <p>It was a good year in many ways. Many elements of my life changed drastically this year. If you had told me a year ago that I would be living in new house, I would’ve called you crazy. If you had described my future self to me back then I would’ve declared that you’re nuts. The truth is, things are different. I <em>am</em> living in a new house. I <em>have</em> changed. The old me is, for all intents and purposes, <a target="_blank" href="http://www.metrolyrics.com/dead-and-gone-lyrics-ti.html">“Dead and Gone.”</a> It feels like an old chapter finished and a new chapter just began. In the period of a year I have changed from the person I once was to the person I am now. In the past year I have closed old doors and opened new ones. I told old friends good-bye, welcomed the addition of new ones, and strengthened the friendship between the ones I all ready had. I hate to sound overly cheesy, but I feel I have “grown up” a lot this past year.</p>  <p>I suppose you could say it wasn’t all that great in many ways, too. I had to leave behind many worlds, literally and figuratively, and adapt to life as it is now. I had to give up people I loved and make sacrifices to make things work. Within the past week I lost two family members. Heck, earlier today I told a close friend good-bye. The world keeps on turning, but the weird thing is that it spins in different directions for each and every one of us. I know that the future is uncertain for everyone. I know in my heart that I will probably have to say good-bye to many friends and loved ones, both permanently and temporarily, but, danggit, I’m going to enjoy it while it lasts!</p>  <p>I don’t mean to sound so strange. This was meant to be my tribute and reflection of the year behind us and a warm welcome to the one in front of us. It seems like many of these types of things have a strange melancholy feel to them. Overall, I enjoyed 2008. It was filled with hardships and sad times, yet it was filled with joy and excitement. We may have had a heck of a time with the economy (for all the members of the Buzz Brigade, “In these troubling economic times…” [drink]), but things were still great. I am thankful that the lord let me live to enjoy another year. At least I can enter the new year saying that I had no regrets and, if I had it to do over again, I would do everything the same way.</p>  <p>Do I have a New Year’s Resolution? Of course. I want to start living healthier. I think I have a real shot at it and I intend to make a solid attempt. Then again, the whole resolution is rather vague, so I suppose I set myself up for success. I suppose that’s a good thing, though.</p>  <p>I’ve rambled enough! Therefore, I shall conclude with a toast: May the future be bright. May we all live each and every day to the fullest. May we live life to the best of our abilities and, even if things don’t turn out the way we want them to, may we not have regrets. Here’s hoping that 2009 is filled with excitement, joy, happiness, and relief. May everyone find what they are looking for in the upcoming year. May everyone realize what’s important and what isn’t. May we all realize that everything happens for a reason and try to understand exactly what that is. May we all find the deeper meanings to everything. May everyone move forward and live better than they ever have before. Here’s hoping 2009 <em>is</em> everything that it <em>can</em> be. Here’s hoping that 2009 is everything you want it to be. Cheers!</p>