---
layout: post
title: "Going Green, Going Crazy"
date: 2009-02-06
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>Today was magical: there were many interesting stories that I absolutely had to blog about because I was either too happy, too surprised, or too angry. Most of the stories, as it turns out, were spoken about in today’s Loaded from Cnet:</p>   <p>&#160;</p>  <p>1) The DTV Transition switch is being delayed until June.</p>  <p>Holy crap, Batman. After a year of waiting, “they” are wanting to push the date back. What exactly are they trying to do? All they’ve done for an entire year was warn people about the transition. They worked to make sure everyone would be prepared before the date. I don’t think a single person in the US doesn’t know about the transition, and the only people that aren’t ready are the people who simply don’t care or want to procrastinate. DTV is not quite as good as analog, but it’s high time that we make the switch and clear up that band! Get it done!</p>  <p>2) T-Mobile releases a phone made entirely out of recycled water bottles. </p>  <p>I have been saying for the longest time that this is indeed the future. It is a brilliant idea and I give plenty of kudos to them for it. It may not be the most feature-packed phone on the market, but it uses less energy and boasts 9 hours of talk time. Terrific!</p>  <p>3) Some Christians have pulled their domains from GoDaddy after the “raunchy” commercials during the Superbowl.</p>  <p>All I have to say is Wow, and not in a good way. This is sad. If you’re not happy with the commercial, then here’s a tip: don’t watch the dang Superbowl! It’s strewn with commercials promoting beer and tobacco, and has countless ads trying to sell products with half-naked women. After all that, you’re freaking out over a GoDaddy TV spot, even though they are an unbelievably great Domain Host? Wow. That’s pathetic. I am all for Christians standing up for what’s right, being one myself, but this is pathetic. I thought the commercial was funny. People need to chill.</p>  <p>On another note, it was the most viewed commercial of the Superbowl. Can’t say I’m surprised. The commercial rated #1 was the Doritos Commercial with the crystal ball. Yay, that’s what I voted for!</p> [youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NPhabSD02X4&hl=en&fs=1]  <p>4) Google Health adds a really useful feature…</p>  <p>but I won’t use Google Health. No matter what. Period.</p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <p>I know those aren’t big deals, but my head was going to explode if I didn’t rant my anger. So boo the DTV delay, yay to going green, and a “huh?!?” to the people offended by GoDaddy.</p>