---
layout: post
title: "1n D1g1tal"
date: 2009-06-12
tags:
  - Digital TV
  - Matrix
  - NSync
  - Transition
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

[youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=COm64Fu7NRo]

First off, let me say that when I heard the "Digital TV" swtich was today my mind went straight to that. Sorry I posted that and I'm even more sorry if you actually sat through it. Justin, I like you a lot better now that you're running around with the Lonely Island guys.

A lot of people don't understand what all the digital tv stuff is about, so please allow me to explain: Back in the good ole' days, everything was broadcast in analog, which means the actual physical video (just a bunch of moving pictures, really) and audio was kinda shoved together and shot through the air (not exactly, but I'll run with it). What you saw was what you got. It was up to your TV to look at the picture and make it visible. With digital, there is no physical picture. The picture is, and nerds please pardon this sentence, analyzed and broken down into specific bits of data (which is all in zeros and ones, hence the title "digital"). Blah blah blah. Basically, with digital you can add all kinds of stuff. You can add content guides, subtitle streams, even alternative audio streams. Plus, in theory, you get much better colors. The blacks are blacker because they're written that way, and the whites are whiter. It takes a lot of the "luck of the draw" stuff out and gives you a better, more precise picture, plus it gives you many more features to enjoy. Plus, with Digital TV you'll never get that terrible fuzzy picture. You'll either get perfection or nothing at all. But, hey, we'll just focus on the good.

I think that it's a great thing we've gone to digital. Analog TV is just like casettes- it was amazing when it came out, but not nearly as good as digital. Hey, that's a good analogy- We've upgraded from casettes to CD, and we all know how much better CDs sound. So, regardless of what you've heard, this transition is a good thing.

We're moving forward, replacing old, outdated systems with newer, better, more efficient ones. We're exploring strange new worlds. seeking out new life and new civilizations, and boldly going where no man has gone before.

I suppose it won't be long before we're just watching everything in the Matrix.

Nah- that would just be too cool.

As always,

Nathan