---
layout: post
title: "My Official Thoughts on Some Changes"
date: 2009-03-14
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>People ask my why I like Barack Obama. I don’t have one answer to that; I like many things about him. When I say that I like him people automatically think that I’m a liberal- well, let me begin by saying that’s not true. What am I? I don’t know. I disagree with many liberal views, particularly some of the more religious/moral-related ones. The thing is, that’s pretty much the only part that I agree about with Conservatives, and my views really don’t match “their” views perfectly. So, my final answer: I am independent. I’m not just some kid saying that because he doesn’t really care and wants to be different: I really am independent.</p>  <p>That being said, I think it’s time for change. What types of change you ask (I heard you asking. I recently learned how to read minds. And, yes, I can hear you asking “What am I thinking now?”)? Well, for lack of a better description, “bunches of ‘em.” </p>  <p>I was thinking about the amendments, cause I’m a nerd like that. These are some things that I think should be changed:</p>  <p>1) Freedom of the Press. Terrible idea. This entire entry came about by watching Lie To Me this week. The thing about the press is, they mess things up and make them worse. First of all, they always report negative things. I would like to personally applaud Brian Williams for launching an effort to tell happy news every night. That’s rare. And, also, the press sticks it’s nose in things that really don’t need to be reported. Speaking back on the whole “Lie to Me” thing, the press makes policemen’s jobs much more difficult when it comes to working on certain cases. They try to get as much information as possible, and bring attention to certain things, causing attention to be taken away from other important things. In the instance of the show, when they reported on a new missing person case, people no longer cared about another missing person, even though she had been missing longer. And, on one last note, who cares about Britney Spears and the Octomom? Or, for that matter, Lindsay Lohan or Amy Winehouse? Celebrities are overrated. Such a shame.</p>  <p>2) No one can be on trial for the same crime twice. This doesn’t necessarily need to go away, but it needs to be fixed. I understand that it’s a good thing in most cases, but if someone were to be found “Not guilty” for something like murder and later admitted to it, they should be put on trial again. If I were part of the family that had lost someone because of it, I would want the person that did it to be held responsible.</p>  <p>3) Amendment 26: Voting at age 18. I understand why it’s in place, but perhaps 18 is a little too much for voting rights. If the national government is willing to put hundreds of peoples’ lives in your hands by allowing you to drive at age 16, why don’t they allow people to vote? The people that actually care or know something about it would be the only ones to vote. Besides, how much smarter or wiser could you possibly get in two years?</p>  <p>4) On a related note: fix the dang age limit things. Here’s a thought: why is it that you get permits at 15, license at 16, admittance to R-rated films at 17, Voting Rights and Adultiness&#160; at 18, and&#160; Drinking and Ability to buy guns at 21? What makes sense about that system? Here’s a thought: Put everything at 18, other than permits and licenses (some peeps got places to go!). I know that all the adults reading this are thinking “is he out of his mind?,” but I’m really not. I can tell you that the stupid 17 rule is disregarded completely for movies. I can also tell you that every 14-year-old this side of the states has access to guns at their house. I know that the whole lowering of the drinking age is a big thing, but there are quite a few people even 15 and 16 that drink. A law isn’t going to stop them. Then again, drunk driving accidents would probably increase. I’m not saying it’s a good idea to lower the drinking age, but it’s something to be considered: it sure would make things easier.</p>  <p>It seems that most of my blog entries are either geeky or political. That isn’t a good thing. I promise, fun, happy stuff is on the way and <strong><u>Soon</u></strong>. Until then</p>  <p>As always,</p>  <p>Nathan</p>