---
layout: post
title: "Killing Time."
date: 2009-02-18
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

Through a series of unfortunate circumstances, I have found myself looking directly into the eyes of ten hours stuck at an office. The only good news about that is 1) I can surf the web all day long and not have to feel like a net potatoe. And 2) I will probably get to eat lunch out. Maybe Japanese, who knows? <br /><br />This blog post is going to be rather long, because frankly I have lots of time to kill. I'll start with the "big news" about my blog that I Twittered the other day. The big news was that I was working very dilligently on an "audio blog." It was my idea to produce a podcast-like aduio file of me talking about things and embed it on my blog. I recorded it successfully, but when I went to upload it to the server it kept messing up. So much for that idea. Maybe, though, I'll do it in the future.<br /><br />That means, however, that I have a lot to blog about, cause the stuff I recorded is all brand-new. The first major thing I want to mention in the stimulus bill. The new <a href="http://recovery.gov/">Recovery.gov</a> website launched yesterday. It's very pretty, but I don't really agree with everything the new stimulus bill says. On the front page of the site, there is a chart that lays out where exactly the money is going. At first place is Tax Relief, coming in at $288 Billion. I think that it was a smart move, because giving Americans more money is the best way to stimulate the economy. Yet, some things made me very unhappy, which was why I was not particularly happy with the bill as it is. For instance, science and infrastucture came in third place, and at the very last was a category titled "other." Um, what does that tell me? It sounds like we're just throwing 8 Billion dollars at nothing. I heard earlier, and I don't know this for sure, that some of the money will be going to remodeling and rennovating the White House. Didn't they do that when Bush went in? Just at thought. I support Obama, but doesn't that sounds a bit like "Unnecessary Spending" to you? After all, in his video he states that he is going to "Stop Unnecessary Spending." Just a thought.<br /><br />The decision to delay the DTV transition was terrible. "They" have made it even worse than I thought they could have. Instead of leaving well enough alone, they have made it so stations have until June 12th to switch, but they give that decision to the stations for when to change. The effect: confusion. Some stations are switching now, some later, and some when they just feel like it. How was that helpful?<br /><br />That's all for now, folks, but there's a good chance I'll post again later today.<br /><br />As always,<br />Nathan