---
layout: post
title: "When will they learn?"
date: 2009-03-10
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>Tonight I find myself thinking about things. Perhaps that’s because of my horoscope reading, if you believe those things: “Your mind may seem rather cloudy today, dear Aries, but don't let this hinder you. In fact, you will find that you can use this feeling of fantasy to your advantage. Try to bring more magic into your life. You will find that the more you accept your bizarre feelings and ideas, the more things will fall into place. Do not think that everything in life has to be completely rational.” This, of course, is a load of crap, but I thought that I might as well let you be the judge of that.</p>  <p>Nevertheless, I have something to say, and I can all ready feel the hate I’m going to receive as I type this: Americans mess things up a lot. </p>  <p>The biggest example of that is our television. I would say that I have nothing against our television, but that would be a lie- I do. Don’t get me wrong, I love TV. Some shows, naturally, are better than others. But that isn’t always due to the plot and acting behind a show-.</p>  <p>I was watching Hell’s Kitchen (it’s a name, I can say it) on television the other night, as it is a ritual for Thursday nights, but all I could think about was how ridiculous and over-edited it is. I am a big fan of Chef Gordon Ramsay. I think he’s a brilliant chef. The sad thing about it is that the American versions of his shows are simply crazy. They’re edited so much that they are made to show a story a different way, to add tension, and, overall, try to make it so that you stick around until the very end, just for the money. Reality shows? Ha. That’s not reality. I guarantee&#160; that if you were to speak with one of the contestants on the show they would say, “that never happened like that.” Most of the drama on this show is fake. Period. And, on a side note, if you were going to give a multi-million dollar restaurant to a chef, wouldn’t you have it narrowed down to the best chefs in the world? Well, he doesn’t. He picks the ones that don’t have any clue about cooking, just to add tension and suspense to the show. Well, what can I say? It works.</p>  <p>I do have something to compare it to. I’m not sure if you’ve ever had the chance to watch Ramsay’s Kitchen Nightmares (not to be confused the “Kitchen Nightmares,” his American version of the show), but it is exactly how a show should be. It’s made to show it like it really happened, it’s narrated calmly by the chef himself, and is filmed in such a way you feel like it’s really sincere. There isn’t all the craziness, the shifting angles of the camera, the quick cuts to commercials- and even the chef is more calm. People can say what they want, but other counties have us beat to death when it comes to that. Oh, and I have to add this tidbit: Fox is a terrible station. All their reality shows are fake and over-produced, and they canceled Firefly, like, ten years ago. Call me one of those stupid fans that will never get over it, but what were you guys thinking?!? FIREFLY!</p>  <p>I’ll wrap this up because it’s almost bed time and I’m running on empty as it is. American television and radio, as well as many other systems, are sadly mislead and mistaken, all because of money and popularity. Will they ever change? No, it’s all about money to them. </p>  <p>So, what’s the point of this? Well, I don’t have one. As the man from the second Matrix said, old men like me don’t bother making points. Take what you want out of this. My only thought is this: American television is fake and overrated. I’ll be sticking with the sincere and real television that can be found elsewhere: in other countries and on the internet (where people still care about stuff). </p>  <p>As always,</p>  <p>Nathan.</p>