---
layout: post
title: "Moving Forward"
date: 2009-03-23
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

Before you read any further, click on the play button below and crank your speakers. The background music is essential to the feel of this post.<br /><br /><br /><br />Ok, time to start this thang.<br /><br /><br />At 12:01 AM EST on March 23, in the year of our Lord 2009, my official Birthday will begin. That being said, I won't be ____ years old until 6:00 PM, so I have some time.<br /><br />I'm excited about getting older. I know that it will be lots of fun. But things happened at the worst time. You see, I watched the LOST Season 3 Finale three days ago, and no all I can think about is one of the final scenes, over and over and over. Needless to say, I'm depressed and bummed. My life has been flashing before my eyes the past weekend.<br /><br />I'm not going to bother with coming up with a "Greatest Hits," cause I hate to say I don't have enough for a record. Instead, I'm gonna drop a quick point and split. It was bothering me that I am getting close to the end of LOST. Most people think I'm crazy, but Lost means something more than just a television show. It's like.... it's how I relax. I know that, no matter what, at the end of the day I can pop a Coke and chill by watching it. I first started the series over a year ago, buying 1 episode every week. It was the highlight. Now, I'm buying full seasons and watching them daily. Really, I've begun to take it for granted.<br /><br />I didn't want to buy the next season. Heck, I've still not. Why? Why is it that, all though I want nothing more than to see what happens, I still refuse to buy it? I didn't want to lose it. I know that the ride's almost over. Even if I had to wait for years, I couldn't let it be over. I couldn't deal with the fact it's almost gone.<br /><br />But I suppose they'll be another Lost. There's always something next. Roads go ever on and on, down from the door where the begin...    Until it joins some larger way, Where many paths and errands meet, And whither then? I cannot say.<br /><br />Basically, I realized that it will be okay. I can't just go on, trying to keep something from happening. Like it or not, time keeps on slipping into the future. Steve Miller taught us that. <span style="font-weight:bold;">Sometimes you have to let it go and just enjoy the ride while it lasts.<br /></span><br />Moral of the story? I'm buying Lost Season 4... sometime.<br /><br />As always,<br />Nathan.