---
layout: post
title: "It’s the Nathan-Rant!"
date: 2009-03-03
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>For those of you who don’t “get” the title, here’s a clip from BOL that you are still likely not to understand or appreciate:</p>    <p>Let me begin this blog entry by saying that my new site is up! It’s running! It’s got a few hiccups, but I’ll try to give it the nose-holding, water-drinking remedy it needs. In the meantime, you can find it <a href="http://www.nathandyer.webs.com/" target="_blank">here</a>! or <a href="http://www.nathandyer.webs.com/" target="_blank">here</a>! or even <a href="http://www.nathandyer.webs.com/" target="_blank">here</a>.</p>  <p>Back to the rant.</p>  <p>I am darn tired of MySpace’s bologna (sorry for the swear words). It’s not the site’s bologna that I’m tired of, it’s the peoples’ that are members (me included for a <u>few</u> of these). </p>  <p>Some of these can apply to other sites, some can’t (but I really haven’t seen them on Facebook, for example). The biggest pain in the butt is this: you find a bulletin that reads “Open this or at 11:11:11 a scary ex-con dressed as a clown will hover over your bed.” Then, when you open it you find this:</p>  <p>Once there was a boy</p>  <p>[Scroll]</p>  <p>[Scroll]</p>  <p>[Scroll]</p>  <p>(Not to scale: 1,000 scrolls later)</p>  <p>And his name was……</p>  <p>and if you don’t repost this in 5 seconds a scary ex-con will…… well, you get the idea. They are annoying, and I promise you that it WON’T happen. I know, I always do that. In fact, if you don’t repost it and you DO get killed that way, I’ll personally go tradesies on the whole dead thing with you. </p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <p>Another pain in the butt are the whole &quot;If you love the Lord you will repost this within the next minute, but if you don’t you hate the Lord and you are ashamed and you will choke on a french fry and etc.” I NEVER repost those. And don’t get me wrong, I love the Lord, but I DON’T love those types of things. </p>  <p>&#160;</p>  <p>By biggest pet peeve is the comments section. Have you ever wondered why it’s called “comments”? It’s because it’s for you to write ACTUAL COMMENTS. </p>  <p>Actual comment: Whoa, I like your MySpace page, and may I say that your shirt was amazing in the new photo you uploaded.</p>  <p>NOT an actual comment: dude, I txted you and you didn’t txt back. What’s going on?</p>  <p>And, as a final bit, what’s with all the swearing? You wanna curse, do it on your dadgum profile page (here I am frowning at public cursing and I phrase my sentence that way!) I can’t log in to check my messages without being hit with AT LEAST 1 F-bomb (most of the time. I don’t want to go all Katie Couric on you ;) ). That MAY be a little bit much, don’t you think? If it were a once-in-a-blue-moon thing, that would be more okie-dokie, but seriously. Grr…</p>  <p>Well, that was fun. Cue the music. I’m out.</p>  <p>As always, </p>  <p>Nathan.</p>