---
layout: post
title: "Nathan Rant 2.0. The big news is that it's towards Apple!"
date: 2009-03-28
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

Here's something that I don't understand, so please help me out with this:<br /><br />I pay <span style="font-weight:bold;">99 cents</span> per track for <span style="font-weight:bold;">DRM-ed</span> tracks that only work on <span style="font-weight:bold;">5 PCs and my iPod</span> at one time, as apposed to purchasing<span style="font-weight:bold;"> 79 cent, non-drmed</span> music from Amazon, and you <span style="font-style:italic;font-size:130%;"><span style="font-weight:bold;">still</span></span> charge me <span style="font-weight:bold;">30 cents</span> per song for the upgrade?...<br /><br />I pay for <span style="font-weight:bold;">$20 bucks</span> for the 2.0 software upgrade, get up at <span style="font-weight:bold;">5 AM</span> to download it, and you expect me to pay <span style="font-weight:bold;">20 bucks for copy and paste?!?</span><br /><br />Why do I always stick with iTunes? I have always been a loyal customer, yet I always end up getting punished (and I'm  using the word punished to replace a slightly  inappropriate word similar to an action performed by a drill or screwdriver on any given day) by Apple.<br /><br />And now they're switching to the 3-tier pricing? I knew about that a long time ago, so what's changed? Based on stories by CNET, mainly Buzz Out Loud, they're going to charge $1.29 for popular tracks. They expect to do this when Amazon is 79 cents?<br /><br /><span style="font-weight:bold;color:rgb(0,0,153);">I'm being raped by Apple. </span>I've stood by their side but I am seriously getting ticked off, I'm tired of being crapped, and FYI Apple, if you start to charge $1.29 after the hundreds of songs and videos I've purchased from you I will go to Amazon so dang fast you won't be able to say "iPod."<br /><br />Consider this my warning.<br /><br />Grr...<br /><br />I would sign off with "As Always," but my dislike of Apple is new so I will instead sign:<br /><br />Unusually Confused and Angered,<br />Completely different from before,<br />Nathan.