---
layout: post
title: "A Question on Religion"
date: 2009-01-16
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>Let me begin this post by saying that I am not Catholic. My entire life I have been a Baptist, but I don’t suppose the Baptist part really matters, because it all ultimately comes down to your faith in Christ and your salvation. That being said, I was watching <em>Lost</em> tonight and one part made me feel really great and got me to thinking: do some certain types of Christianity get less out of some stories than others. This probably didn’t make any sense, so please let me explain. The scene deals with Baptism. It seems, as far as that scene goes, that their idea behind the importance of Baptism is different than ours. When Mr. Eko (again, this is a television show that isn’t <em>meant</em> to teach the Bible, so don’t think that I’m saying it does) speaks of Jesus’ Baptism and the dove it got me to thinking, why isn’t the dove as large of a point in our “beliefs” as it is in theirs. I’m not trying to really get to the bottom of things, I was just hoping to make people ponder on this one question: do some types of Christianity make some parts of the stories more important than others, and vice-versa? Personally, I think they do. Whether or not this is a good thing, I’m not sure, but it seems to me that the story of the dove (I’ve always heard it as God just saying he was proud of Jesus, never really thought of it as a symbol) is a great example.</p>  <p>Here’s a link to the Baptism of Jesus from Wikipedia.org if you’d like to read more into the story: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baptism_of_Jesus">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baptism_of_Jesus</a></p>  <p>And here is the clip from the episode of Lost I was referring to (Lost, Season 2, Episode 12, “Fire + Water”):</p> <br> [youtube=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qc9MGF810VY&hl=en&fs=1] <br><br>  <p>&#160;</p>  <p>I would love to hear what you have to think both about the question and overall what the meaning of Baptism is. Feel free to post your thoughts as comments, as I am interested in seeing what you think!</p>