---
layout: post
title: "Life at 60 MPH"
date: 2009-10-10
tags:
  - Moving Fast
  - Society
  - Speed Limit
categories:
  - Politics and Opinion
  - Thoughts and Tidbits
---

People never seem to surprise me. I see people on the news talking about what's wrong with people today. Some say that TV is rotting our minds, some blame it on schools, and others blame it on things like government or nature. I don't believe any of that for a second. It is my strong personal belief that the main thing wrong with people today, aside from an obsession with money, is how fast their lives are moving.

It seems that everyone is living life with the gas pedal mashed to the floor. If I had a quarter for every time someone said that it's a go-go-go world I'd have... well, I'd have enough to buy an couple candy bars. The thing that I can't fathom is how most people can't obey the speed limit. There's some natural force inside them pushing them to go a little bit faster. If you want people to go 60, you set the speed limit at 55.

There's no need to go that fast. People need to take time and slow down a little bit. Every now and then I get caught up and just have to stop and reboot. I can't believe what I see when I'm on the road: people yelling, cursing, getting angry, being rude, and the all-too-often middle finger. I'm proud to be that hippie driving 54 MPH with a giant Apple sticker on the back and a Jack Johnson CD in the player. Flip me off all you want to.

Just a thought.

As always,

Nathan.