---
layout: post
title: "Potpourri/Funnn"
date: 2009-02-01
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>No, I’m not dead- I’ve just been hiding underneath my bed while the groundhog army raids my freezer. All joking aside, I’ve not posted a blog entry in a while. For anyone that actually knows me in “real” life, I understand how surprised you are at how long I’ve gone without saying something! I’ve decided that it’s been long enough! I can’t stay bottled up forever, so I’ve created a potpourri of a blog entry. It’s jumbled up, pointless, and at times I ramble. So, pretty much, it’s just like normal!</p>  <p>The last time I posted a blog entry Barack Obama was about to become President. Well, the easiest way to phrase this sentence is: He did it. I found myself watching Hulu’s coverage of the Inauguration for many hours. I must say, I was impressed with the ceremony. I am equally impressed with the work he has done in office all ready. Might I add a somewhat serious and somewhat joking &quot;thank goodness he got to keep his BlackBerry!”</p>  <p>By beloved computer chair passed away last week, after over a year of nearly endless service. He died with honor. An autopsy later revealed that it was a broken bolt that caused the tragic event. The final ceremony consisted of racing her remnants down my driveway like a maniac and a cold, fast trip to the dumpster. I assume she’ll be cremated, but from what I’ve seen on the news she’ll probably be thrown somewhere to decay for a century. In related news, I just got a new chair that’s amazing and awesome beyond belief. Long live the new chair!</p>  <p>Other random thoughts: the <a target="_blank" href="http://www.kxan.com/dpp/news/Road_signs_warn_of_zombies">“Zombies in the Area! Run!”</a>&#160; sign was amazing and I wish that I could have seen its glory in person. Facebook’s new “Pirate” language is unbelievably clever and funny. I literally laughed out loud (you logout by “Abandon[ing] yer Ship)! The movie “Taken” was brilliant and action-packed, but it was not as long as I would have liked. Tomorrow is the Super Bowl which means only one thing: LOST-athon! That’s right, the two-part season finale for Season 2! I couldn’t be more excited!</p>  <p>One last political thought that entered my mind: <a target="_blank" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Net_Neutrality">Net Neutrality</a>. I’ve been researching the topic for a while and I <em>completely</em> support Net Neutrality. I know it’s not a huge issue you hear about, but to people in the internet community such as myself, it’s a very big deal. </p>  <p>It’s getting late, so I’ll wrap things up. I know this isn’t a very proper or coherent entry, so please forgive me. For those of you that actually look at or care about my blog (hey Mom! J/K), I will have a better entry up in the future, as soon as I find something interesting. May the force be with you!</p>  <p>As always,</p>  <p>Nathan</p>