---
layout: post
title: "Ubuntu- Gesundheit"
date: 2009-03-19
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

You learn something new every day. For instance, I just learned that the word gesundheit is spelled like gesundheit.<br /><br />That has absolutely nothing to do with this post, but I thought it was worth mentioning. Apparently it is the German word for "Health". On a related note, I'm a little sick. I have bronchitis so this post should be a little interesting: it's fueled by antibiotics, ten hours of a glorious sick day, and a teaspoon-and-a-half full of Tylenol with Codine; that stuff is amazing.<br /><br />This isn't the happy post that I promised, but it's coming. It's at the tip top of my brain, it just hasn't been converted from brain format to ones and zeros. This post is one of praise (for the most part), unlike most of my other posts.<br /><br />If you follow me on Twitter (and I know you are ;) ), you know that I recently installed Ubuntu on my PC. I must say, I've been using it for three-quarters of a week, and from my experience it's nothing short of a work of art. Easy install, flawless GUI, free, open-source apps, and everything designed by people like me- geeks that care about the finished product and making it perfect, not tired, underpaid codemonkeys that just want to get the day over and get paid *cough*Microsoft*cough*.<br /><br />It's unfair that Microsoft has such control in the market, and even  a little sad that Apple does. Microsoft can release crappy, unfinished products and people stuff flock to them. Some people don't care. And neither does Microsoft.<br /><br />Three more tidbits and I'm done. 1) Apple, I have some hate for you. What were you thinking with the new Shuffle? Controls on the headphones? DRMming your chips? Hate to say it but JERKS! That felt wrong to say.<br /><br />2) AIG CEOs need to be *punished* (read that as "shot"). I would use that word, but I'm trying trying to publicly threaten their lives. I'm just saying, that's crappy and pretty much evil.<br /><br />3) May I add that my prayers are with Liam Neeson his family. That is sad and I TOTALLY did not realize that was her in the parent trap... not that I've seen the parent trap.... I'll stop talking now.<br /><br />To conclude, I've used Macintosh, Windows, and Linux.<br /><br />As the commercials go,<br />I'm not a Mac.<br />I'm not a PC.<br /><br />I am a Linux.<br /><br />As always,<br />Nathan