---
layout: post
title: "The One with the Predictions"
date: 2009-01-04
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>One of the “big” things to do in the technology world is to make predictions about the upcoming year, then go back and see how right or wrong you were the following year. I know that I technically have four days already in for ‘09, so this is kinda cheating, but I have decided to make a few predictions about the upcoming year. Some of the ones I’ve come up with are technology related, but many have to do with life in general. So, without further ado, I shall gaze into the crystal ball:</p>  <p>1) iTunes [songs] will be going DRM-free | I know that many people have predicted this one, but I had to put it because I am confident in my belief that they will cease locking down their music. It is my hope that they will offer tracks in a high bit-rate MP3 format, but they probably will continue with AAC. Ah, who cares, at least we can convert it then!</p>  <p>2) Recession, Recovery, Prosperity | In that order. I have a firm belief that they economy will continue to get worse for a while, but after a while with President Obama in office things will begin to clear up and get better, and we as Americans will begin to see things better than ever before. Here’s hoping!</p>  <p>3) Windows Live will be the Next Big Thing | People have really ignored and criticized WL for years (myself included), but I have a feeling that Windows Live will be even more amazing further on this year. I predict that it will have other social network integration features (it all ready can integrate with Twitter).</p>  <p>4) People begin to forget about Harry Potter | Harry who? I’m just kidding. I think that the Harry Potter fandom will slowly begin to cool off. After all there’s nothing else to look forward to- the books are finished. The new movie is coming out this year, but I don’t foresee record numbers and everyone knows that the movies simply aren’t all that great. So here’s to you, Potter. 50 points to Gryffindor!</p>  <p>5) A Scrubs spin-off show will be created | I can feel this one coming in the air tonight. This is the final season for Scrubs, but I know that some of the actors don’t want to call it quits. I’m not saying it will be any good, because it won’t, but I think a spin-off will happen. Want me to venture a guess at who it will star? The Janitor, and maybe Ted. Hey, maybe they’ll go through with that whole “Legal Custodians” thing!</p>  <p>6) Firefox will pass IE on Browser Market Share | IE sucks. Enough said.</p>  <p>7) Steve Jobs will be stepping down as CEO at Apple | Hold on, I’m crying on my keyboard again. I know that this is a well-known rumor, but I had to put it any way. I think it is true, but I’ll sure miss you Steve!</p>  <p>8) Windows 7 will be released this year | And here’s a bonus prediction: It will be great! It will be the Vista Vista wanted to be!</p>  <p>9) CDs will slowly begin to die | CDs are the new Vinyl- good-bye, it’s been nice knowing you! I don’t think they’ll die this year, but they’ll develop fake PVC cancer. :(</p>  <p>And lastly, 10) This is the year we go even greener. | The foods we eat, the things we buy, and the ways we live are changing forever. Luckily, they are changing much for the better. So ditch that trash can and say “hello” to the recycle bin! I salute you, O magical phrase and color. </p>  <p>Think I’m right about any of that? Well, I hope so (for the most part)! I guess we’ll just have to wait and see. Here’s to a great ‘09! Happy (sorta) New Year!</p>