---
layout: post
title: "July 4th"
date: 2009-07-04
tags:
  - A Nation United
  - Independence Day
  - July 4th
  - We The People
  - Yes We Can
categories:
  - Politics and Opinion
---

For those of us in America, it's July 4th. Well, I suppose it is around the rest of the world, but to us July 4th marks the anniversary of declaring independence from England. Today after lunch my family ventured to the lake to watch the boat parade. There, on the picnic table beside the water, I watched boat after boat float by. They displayed American flags, and danced, and laughed. Then, one boat passed by displaying the rebel flag, and I simply stood there and thought to myself, "how can someone be so disrespectful and airheaded?" I'm not saying that people who display rebel flags are disrespectful or airheaded by any stretch, but it simply is rude, I think, to show a rebel flag today. We need to think about what the holiday means. We fought and died to become a nation where we could believe how we wanted to, do the things we wanted to do, and live together in harmony. Instead, they show support for disregarding this unity and breaking apart based on differences; a nation not united. We need to just stop and realize what America means, what it stands for. I mean, yeah, I'll be the first one to tell you this county is messed up. We have many problems, we're based on broken systems, but those are just little things.What's important is this: we are built upon the idea of Freedom. We are built upon the idea that we can believe what we want to believe , that we can live together regardless of race, or color, or any other difference between us. <strong>We the people. A group of united people. It is this principle that drives all my pride of America.</strong>

"<span>It was a creed written into the founding documents that declared the destiny of a nation.</span>

<span>Yes we can.

Now the hopes of the little girl who goes to a crumbling school in Dillon are the same as the dreams of the boy who learns on the streets of LA; we will remember that there is something happening in America; that we are not as divided as our politics suggests; that we are one people; we are one nation; and together, we will begin the next great chapter in the American story with three words that will ring from coast to coast; from sea to shining sea --

Yes. We. Can."</span>

<span>God Bless the USA
</span>

<span><strong>Happy July 4th everyone.</strong> Hope yours was filled with as much food and as many fireworks as mine.
</span>

<span>As always, </span>

<span>Nathan
</span>