---
layout: post
title: "Here's to 2012"
date: 2011-12-31
tags:
  - 2012
  - New Years
  - predictions
  - Resolutions
  - Ubuntu
categories:
  - Politics and Opinion
  - Thoughts and Tidbits
---

Every year on New Years Eve, which just so happens to be my favorite holiday, I write up a blog post while watching the live stream from New York City. It's a feeling that I get to experience only once per year; one of reflection, hope, and forethought on the year ahead. Last year I put together a list of ten resolutions that I wanted to work on to make 2011 a success. Here it is, along with the results:

1) Stop stressing over the little stuff - on the whole, I'm say I was very successful at that.

2) Post more frequently to OpenFTW to grow and engage the community - killed the blog within a month or two.

3) Start a podcast - didn't happen.

4) Report more bugs - didn't happen.

5) Write another book or something - nailed it.

6) Start watching Battlestar Galactica - I tried watching one episode, I was bored. It's not you, it's me.

7) Spend more time outdoors - I think I actually succeeded tat that as much as I ever would have.

8) Replace the busted speakers in my truck - nope.

9) Learn enough Spanish to be able to hold a decent conversation - nope. I, in fact, dropped my Spanish class.

10) Figure out if you’re supposed to put periods at the end of sentences in a numbered list. - Totally did that. Only if it's a complete sentence.

So, what are my resolutions for 2012?

1) Be better connected and more social.

2) Be more organized and productive, with much less procrastination.

3) Graduate high school.

4) Start a podcast (one of these years I'm going to do it!).

5) Live a much healthier lifestyle. Regain energy and lose more weight.

6) Start college off right.

7) Help usher in the arrival of the best open source software ever, Ubuntu 12.04 Precise Pangolin

8) Take it easier this year and not even think about writing a book of any sort.

And, finally, some predictions:

1) Ubuntu 12.04 will be a stunning release and the key to taking FOSS to the masses.

2) Ultrabooks will be the next big thing, and will eventually replace most laptops, but still won't be the success that PC vendors are hoping for.

3) LibreOffice will get a big UI revamp.

4) Netflix will come to Linux. I know they promised us that, but they've said that for two years now.

5) ARM laptops will start popping up and will eventually (not this year) be a huge success.

6) 3D will die out because studios will realize that it was a fad that will only continue to shrink.

7) SOPA and PIPA will die, but only after much back-and-forth deliberation and several "black-out" campaigns from Wikipedia, Amazon, etc.

2011 was amazing. The year saw many triumphs, revolutions, and  giant leaps forward. It also lost some truly remarkable people (here's to you, Steve). The world today is not the same one we were living in a year ago, but on the whole that's for the better. 2011 was my favorite so far, and I'm sure that 2012 will only be even better. So here's to a happy, successful, prosperous 2012. And I'm sure, barring any freak accidents or major medical problems, I'll be writing here again this time next year.

Cheers, friends.

<span style="font-family:'Ubuntu Light';font-size:small;">
</span>