---
layout: post
title: "In Which I Make the Case for Paper Books"
date: 2013-03-11
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>It wasn't very long ago that I reported that I was going to <a href="http://nathandyer.me/blog/2013/1/16/paperless-in-2013" target="_blank">attempt to go as paperless as possible in 2013</a>, and I have to say that I've&nbsp;managed to do well at it so far. I have collected tons of receipts, notes, and other papers to be recycled, I've avoided printed receipts at gas pumps, I've used my Nexus 7 in place of printing when possible, and I've taken fewer paper notes in my classes. I'm really proud of how well I'm doing.</p><p>That said, today I bought a book: not an e-book, but rather a thick, heavy, physical book, and I bought it in an real bookstore. I love everything about book stores. As fantastic as Amazon is, I love the atmosphere. I love the smell of books, the experience of browsing through all the titles, and the aroma of coffee floating around in the air.&nbsp;</p><p>I've read many books digitally. I've read them on an e-ink Kindle, an iPad, an Nexus 7, and my laptop. Out of all of them, I've enjoyed the e-ink Kindle experience the most. While I <em>can</em> read on a backlit LCD, it's never as comfortable and enjoyable as reading on paper or e-ink. My eyes hurt a lot, and those displays strain them even more with white backgrounds and dark text.&nbsp;</p><p>But no matter how I read them digitally, it's never quite as enjoyable as when I read a physical book. I love the attention to detail in printed books. I appreciate the lovely typefaces, the way the pages are laid out, and the overall&nbsp;aesthetic&nbsp;appeal. And, no matter how much I sniff my tablet, it's never going to smell like a book. Don't think I'm crazy, there are millions of fellow book-sniffers out there.</p><p>And there's also the issue of DRM (Digital Rights Management). I hate DRM, as you might expect. I hate the idea of licensing books rather than owning them. I hate locking myself into one system, too. With Kindle, the issue isn't as big of a deal- I can read the books on a Kindle, any iOS or Android Device, or any computer. If I were to buy iBooks, however, I would be confined to an Apple device, and if I purchased from Google Play, I couldn't read them on an iPad if I ever got one. With the printed versions, though, I own the books, I can sell the books, and no matter what happens, I can take them with me.&nbsp;</p><p>In all practicality, more often than not it makes sense to purchase a digital version of a book. It's usually cheaper, it's instantaneous, I can take it with me anywhere, it weights nothing, and it's better for the environment. But, on a cold night with a cup of ginger ale, I would rather snuggle up with a paperback. </p><p></p><p></p>