---
layout: post
title: "The Bathroom Girl Perplexity"
date: 2013-01-02
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---

<p>I want to share a story that happened to me that I have been pondering for over a month.<br></p><p>It was the end of the semester and I found myself in the seating area in front of the coffee shops at university. I like sitting in there because the lighting isn’t too bright, I love the smell of coffee, and the tables are perfect for me to get out my laptop and go about my normal computer-y business.</p><p>That particular day I went in for my 9:20 class, but my professor ended up letting us leave as soon as we turned in our projects. That was the last class meeting, and my next class wasn’t until 2:45, so I tucked in at the coffee shop. And, being the week before finals when most of my work was due, I did what any sensible student would: fired up <em>Team Fortress 2</em> on my laptop using Steam for Linux.</p><p>I sat there and played games, listened to music, and watched TV for a few hours. All the while, I took notice of the girl at the table adjacent to me. In the interest of telling the story accurately I will describe her: dark-haired, well-dressed, and absolutely stunning. I think I would describe her as a classier, younger Amanda Peet. She had been there since I had arrived, her laptop open, textbooks spread across the table, and in intense ‘I’ve got to study to ace my finals’ mode.<br></p><p>Typical, everyday college life. Then, this happened:</p><p>I notice motion out of the corner of my eye, and I think perhaps someone is trying to get my attention. I take my earbuds out and turn my head, only to be surprised to see the girl is waving in my direction, and I’m the only one around. <em>No way</em>, I think; then she starts talking to me.</p><p>“I’ve got to run to the bathroom, would you care to watch my stuff?”</p><p>“Sure,” I replied, as any kind person would. She then got up and walked to the restroom.</p><p>Perhaps the story isn’t quite as enthralling as <em>Harry Potter</em>, but I will explain why it is so perplexing, and why it has left me thinking so much the past several weeks.</p><p>I was a complete stranger. I had never met the girl any time in my entire life. I could be a serial rapist, an axe murderer, a thief, or any other generic flavor of criminal mastermind. Not only did she feel comfortable talking to me, a stranger, and asking a favor (albeit a very small, insignificant one), but she got up and took it on faith that I would protect her possessions.</p><p><strong>I, a complete stranger, could have easily been the exact person that she was wanting to protect her belongings from.</strong> I could have, at any point, gone over and picked up $1000+ of stuff and walked right out the door. But, of course, I didn't, and never would in a million years- but she didn't know that.</p><p>How did she know that I was trustworthy? Why did she feel comfortable trusting me? Would I trust some random person to watch my laptop? The answer is no. You see, I had to use the restroom that day, too, but I didn’t ask anyone to guard my belongings; instead, I folded up my laptop, tucked it in my backpack, and slung the backpack across my shoulders.</p><p>In the end, she returned to find her belongings exactly how she had left them. She gave me a thankful look, and returned a polite <em>thank-you wave.</em></p><p>I am still baffled by this social interaction. She was quite lovely, though.</p><p style="margin-top:0;margin-left:0;margin-right:0;"></p>