---
layout: post
title: Burritos
summary: I'm obsessed
---

I'm newly obsessed with burritos, and my wife is to blame.

It's not that I was previously unfamiliar with the concept of a burrito. I've gotten them at Mexican restaurants several times, and have had many burrito supremes from Taco Bell in my lifetime. The general shape and concept is not new. Until now, my one line review would have contained the words "underwhelming" and "not filling."

But I now know more about the miracle of reality that is the burrito, and I can't get enough.

It started when my wife suggested that we go to Moe's (Southwest Grill). I had never been to Moe's before, or Chipotle, or any of our local burrito shops. I figured there was no way that I would get full, or even enjoy it that much, but I'm always willing to try something new.

This is not a sponsored blog post, but I absolutely loved Moe's! The burrito was ginormous and filled with lots of fresh veggies and all kinds of things that I love. Plus, you get free chips, and if you order a side of queso and then put the queso on the burrito itself, it is elevated to a whole new tier. I was surprised at not only how delicious it was, but that I was absolutely stuffed with just a single burrito. 

Burritos, it turns out, are kind of the perfect food. They are deceptively simple: just a big tortilla stuffed with whatever you want. But when you start filling it with meats, rice, beans, veggies, sauces, and cheeses, it becomes a whole new thing. It's a perfectly portable vessel for flavor and nutrition. And it's not ludicrously expensive, with prices comparable to other staples like burgers and sandwiches.

Since then I've had way more burritos than I can count, and realistically, more than I have needed. I've expanded my horizons and tried them from as many places as I can. Some I've liked almost as much as Moe's, and some I've liked less than Moe's, but I haven't been let down yet.

I love that I have this new food obsession. I'm sure I'll tire of it eventually, but for now, please excuse me while I have another.
