---
layout: post
title: Starting a GLP-1
summary: I have never felt better in my entire life
date: 2026-07-02 08:00:00 -0400
---

I started a GLP-1 drug nearly two months ago, and so far the results have been borderline miraculous.

I decided to take the drug for a number of reasons:

* I have had two instances of my heart going into atrial fibrillation, and losing weight relatively quickly is imperative to avoid further procedures, especially ablation. Anything I can do to prevent yet another surgery, especially one on another vital organ, feels like an absolute must.
* Studies show that kidney transplant patients who take GLP-1 medication have better long-term outcomes.
* Studies show that GLP-1 medications may lower the risk of developing certain cancers, which is helpful since my anti-rejection medicine and being immunocompromised significantly raises my risk of cancer.
* I have obstructive sleep apnea, and using GLP-1 medications can help eliminiate it (mostly through the associated weight loss).


And if I'm being honest with myself, I hate the way I look in the mirror. I haven't liked how I've looked since I was in highschool and lost 60 pounds while working in a fast food restaurant. Unfortunately, after quitting the job and starting college, the weight came right back and has been with me ever since.

I made an honest effort to lose the weight independently earlier in the year, and originally had some moderate success. In my earlier blog post I mentioned how I was trying to live a healthier lifestyle, reduce my calorie intake (largely through eating smaller portions and removing the least nutritious foods from my diet), and be more active by going to the gym at least three nights a week. 

I've had ups and downs since then, but aside from slightly falling off the bandwagon around my birthday, I've managed to mostly continue those good habits. That said, my weight loss plateaued, and I decided that moving forward with one of these medications would be the best path forward.

I spoke with my doctor, and without any hesitation at all I was put on Zepbound, which my doctor believed would be the most effective medication for me. I picked it up, and starting taking weekly at-home injections.

I'm still in the early stages, having only had eight doses of the medicine so far, but my initial review is that these drugs are nothing short of a miracle. All the things you hear about them are true: the food noise disappears, you feel full quickly, and you rarely feel pangs of hunger. But setting all that aside, I was most surprised at how much energy I suddenly had. I have a pep in my step that I've not had in years, and I felt that as soon as the second day after taking the medication. I'm not as tired, and I feel like I can move from task to task and keep going. It has been an instant boost for productivity. Even my mood is improved. I don't know if I've ever felt this good!

I've managed to lose twenty-one pounds so far. I don't expect this pace to continue, and I will almost certainly plateau again (at which point the doctors will raise my dose and I'll just have to be persistent until I break through it). Still, feeling a little better every day and seeing those results not only in the numbers on the scale but the little wins — going down a couple notches in my belt, seeing my face look less puffy on video calls — sustain me. I'm excited for this weight loss journey, and can't wait to see how I look and feel on the other side of it.

Then the real work begins: maintaining.
